welcome back whiskey bitch at the st.
Patrick's Day
as you can see I'm wearing my fabulous
green sweater in honor of the holiday
we're going to talk about a fantastic
new dram wonderful new product the
balbin a relatively new product though
the valve a knee distillery has put out
them being a big big big a fan we are
big fans of the Balvenie
and this is the 12 year single barrel at
40 just want to make sure I'm not wrong
about that
forty-seven point eight percent alcohol
by volume pretty respectable this is
this is one of the most unique products
I've ever tried by the Balmain II when I
first tried it I almost didn't know what
I was really drinking and we've come to
associate the Balvenie with such
luscious fruit keikis beside notes there
they're dependable that way this was
aged in first fill bourbon casks and in
particular of a single valor and the
Bourbons in there it really is it's in
the nose it makes itself pretty pretty
known but in the most unique of ways
this is all it's a very vanilla nose
this is one of the most of vanillin
specifically vanilla scotch noses I've
ever had I mean it's it's not
particularly leaning towards those
Speyside notes we normally think of the
fruitcake and the honey there's some
honey in here but there's so much french
vanilla french vanilla ice cream and
honey a little bit I'm looking couple
saucy kind of a thing not apples but
apple sauce with maybe a little little
hint of cinnamon there's a little bit of
spice there and the other thing I
smelled with or not is baby powder I
don't I don't I don't know why the only
other time I've ever had a baby powder
with whiskey was with angels envy and
it's here but it works it works here I'm
not sure how well I think thought it
worked in the Angels Envy but here I
think it makes it beautiful way in the
back incidentally is like is the corn
you you can you can smell it poking
around back there but mostly the bourbon
is introducing itself it's vanilla and
it is quite appealing
and it tastes like the enriched version
of its nose it's sort of like what would
happen if you got the most intense
French vanilla ice cream and turn it all
the way up if anybody's ever had corn
pudding at the holidays that got really
really sweet cream corn pudding it's got
a lot of that in the palate there's some
spice things like nutmeg there's a
little nutmeg and maybe a little mace on
the on the palate
vanilla honey spices it's it's really
it's the complexity in in terms of its
character notes it's it's not nearly a
spectral of whisky is something that
I've reviewed here but in terms of
intense a the the the notes that it does
have they're very very potent you know
it's very sweet this is an extremely
sweet scotch for those who may not like
it quite as sweet you'll have to be the
judge this does need water not not not
much we're talking about 47% so actually
forty seven point eight so we're talking
maybe about that much and that's just to
help maybe reduce some of the the pinch
when you when you start to drink it
she's opened up a little more I don't
know that I think that water really
dramatically changes the the nose except
that maybe things that are getting lost
like citrus peel no more lemony it's a
little more lemony with with with water
that baby powder it's still there I'm
not sure what's doing that
you can really taste the Bourbon
influence in this Scotch it sort of does
this it kind of goes back more you get
scotch notes and get bourbon dosing it's
scotch notes and get bourbon notes it's
really like a delicious bread pudding if
I can be honest with you it's if you've
ever had a wonderful like a rum raisin
bread pudding loads of rummy raisins in
the bread pudding and the creme Anglais
like kind of holding it all together
it's just loaded with like raisiny
spices and loads of vanilla and loads of
honey it's really very dessert like it's
extremely sweet for a scotch forever
well for any whiskey it's very sweet
loads vanilla loads some honey some
raisins maybe a slight hint of Apple
it's damn good tell you that and my
enjoyment rating for the balcony twelve
years single barrel at forty seven at
once again just because I can't remember
point eight it's it's one of those
interesting when forty seven point eight
percent alcohol by volume was a 92 out
of 100 season